

catalogMaster   :   catalog
                :   catalogMaster ';'  catalog
catalog         :   'CATALOG' code name  parent  active valid '(' fields ')'
code            :    STRING
name            :    STRING
parent          :
                :   'PARENT'  code
active          :   'ACTIVE'
                :   'INACTIVE'
valid           :
                :   DATE
                :   ':'   DATE
                :   DATE  ':' DATE
fields          :   field
                :   fields ';' field
field           :   head  name  type posicion
head            :   'FIELD'
                :   'KEY'
type            :   'NUMERIC' '{' NUMBER ':'  NUMBER '}'
                :   'STRING'  '{'  NUMBER  '}'
                :   'FECHA'   '{'  DATE  ':'  DATE '}'
                :   'ENUM'    '{'  enumList '}'
posicion        :    NUMBER
enumList        :    STRING
                :    enumList ','  STRING


Where    STRING,  NUMBER, NUMERIC, FECHA and DATE are terminals

and  the following rules
1.  A catalog stores a set of records, each record containing a value for each of the fields defined for the catalog, and an active flag.
    Each record holds the rules of the catalog
    Each record has the values of the fields of the catalog and an active flag

2.  A catalog's code is unique within the catalogMaster

3.  A catalog has to have at least the KEY field

4.  The fields of a catalog have to have a different name.
    The type of each field indicates the type of the values of the field
        NUMERIC indicates a numeric field with range {NUMBER : NUMBER)
        STRING  indicates a string field with maximum length {NUMBER}
        FECHA   indicates a date field with range { DATE : DATE}
        ENUM    indicates a string field whose values must belong to the associated enumeration
    If no type is defined use STRING {80} as default

5.  Catalogs might have a parent-child hierarchical structure in which a catalog can be the father of another catalog.
    The hierarchy is set by setting the parent of the child catalog to the identification of the parent catalog.
    When this happens, every record in the child catalog must carry the identification of its parent record in the parent catalog
    The parent catalog knows which catalog is its child
    No two catalogs can have the same parent code. A parent catalog can have at the most one child catalog.
    If the parent code of a catalog is not defined, the catalog is a flat catalog.

6.  If the valid flag of a catalog is set to INACTIVE, the active flag of all its recordS is set to INACTIVE
    If a parent catalog active flag is INACTIVE, the child catalog active flag is automatically set to INACTIVE, and all the records in
    the parent catalog and the child catalog are set to INACTIVE

7.  A catalog, can be searched for a specific record by providing the catalog code, the wanted record's KEY field value (the Search Argument),
          and optionally a set of fields of the record, each field identified by its name.

    To build the result of the search execute the following steps

        a) Assemble the Field Set
           If no set of fields is provided or the presented set is empty
              build a Field Set with two elements (catalog KEY field name,  name of first non KEY field that has the lower position value in the fields of the catalog definition)
           else If the presented set of fields does not contain the KEY field
               include the KEY field as first element of the Field Set
           If any of the fields in the presented set is not defined in the catalog, it must report an error

        b) Build a set that contains the requested record (the Hit Set)
               Search the catalog (identified by the provided catalog code) for the record whose KEY field value equals the Search Argument and include it in the Hit Set
                  If no record is found, the Hit Set will be empty

        c) Assemble the result of the search with
            i)   The KEY field value of the catalog record provided as Search Argument
            ii)  The catalog code
            iv)  The Field Set assembled in a)
            v)   Build a set with the result of search (The Result Set)
                     For each record in the Hit Set
                       include in the Result Set an element with a list of values, one value for each field in the Field Set assembled in a), and the record active flag
                 The Result Set can be empty

8.  A catalog can be searched for the list of all its records, by providing the catalog code, and optionally providing a list of the required field names.

    Execute the following steps

        a) Assemble the Field Set as in rule 7, step a)

        b) Build the set that contains the requested records (the Hit Set)
             and include in it all the records in the catalog.
             The Hit Set can be empty

        c) Assemble the result of the search with
            i)  The catalog code
            iv) The Field Set assembled in a)
            v)  Build a set with the result of search (The Result Set)
                    For each record in the Hit Set
                       include in the Result Set an element with a list of values, one value for each field in the Field Set assembled in a), and the record active flag

9.  The catalogMaster can be searched to find if a catalog with a specific code or name is defined
    The system can provide the list of available catalogs by listing all the catalogs in the catalogMaster

10. A new catalog can be created by providing all the required fields of the catalog

11. A new record can be created by providing the values for each of the fields of the catalog and the identification of the parent record in the parent catalog (its parent record id)
    the values of the record fields are stored in their STRING version, but the provided values must match the type and range defined for the fields of the catalog

12. The inactivation flag can be set in two ways:
    a) By setting the ACTIVE flag to INACTIVE.
       This  automatically sets the TO DATE to the current date (the TO DATE is the DATE that follows the ':' terminal in the valid grammar production
    b) By setting the TO DATE to the current date, or a date in the past

13. A catalog can not be deleted, it can only be inactivated

14. A catalog record can not be deleted, only can be inactivated.
    No more records can be created in an INACTIVE catalog
    The inactivation of a parent record inactivates its children records
    An INACTIVE catalog can be reset to ACTIVE

15. If no dates are provided for the valid dates of the catalog or a record, the valid flag of the corresponding catalog/record is set to ACTIVE

16. If the TO DATE of a catalog/record is set to a date in the past, the valid flag of the catalog/record is set to INACTIVE

17. A parent catalog can be searched for its child catalog. It returns the catalog code and catalog name of the child catalog.
    Thre result of this search can be null, if the parent catalog has no child catalog

18. Any non KEY field of a catalog record can be updated. Its KEY field can not be updated

19. The name, parent, active, valid descriptors of a catalog can be updated but its code can not be updated

20. A catalog must have at least one field defined

21. The field descriptors of a catalog can only be updated if the catalog does not contain records

22. A catalog can be retrieved providing its code. If the code does not exist, it reports an error

23. A catalog can be retrieved and updated

24. A parent catalog record can be searched for its children records providing (as Argument) the catalog code and the record KEY field value,
    and optionally providing an ordered set of the required field names.

    Execute the following steps
        a) Find the catalog to which the presented record belongs (the parent catalog),
        b) Find the child catalog of the parent catalog.
           If no child catalog exists, the Hit Set is an empty set of records
        c) Assemble the Field Set as in rule 7, step a)
        d) Build the Hit Set
           Find the records in the child catalog whose parent record id equals to the Argument and include the records found in the Hit Set
        e) Assemble the result of the search with
           i)   The KEY field value of the catalog record provided as argument to initiate the search
           ii)  The parent catalog code
           iii) The child catalog code
           iv)  The Field Set assembled in c)
            v)  Build a set with the result of search (The Result Set)
                    For each record in the Hit Set
                       include in the Result Set an element with a the record field values, one value for each field in the Field Set assembled in c), and the record active flag

25. All and any catalogs can be searched by any user




